Update1805 (#2038)
Codecademy/docs: content/general/concepts/software-development-life-cycle/terms/iterative/iterative.md

> # The Iterative Approach to Software Development

Reviewer: There needs to be a metadata section. You can see how to build one in the style guide [here](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/style-guide.md#metadata).

You also need to remove the h1 header, it will be provided by the title given in the metadata.

- Can be difficult to manage: Managing iterative development can be challenging, especially when dealing with large teams and complex projects. It can be difficult to keep track of changes and ensure that everyone is working towards the same goal.
- Requires experienced team members: The success of the iterative approach depends on having experienced team members who can effectively manage the development process, provide feedback, and make decisions quickly. This can be a challenge for organizations that lack the necessary talent or resources.

Overall, the iterative approach to the SDLC is an important methodology for software development today. It provides a flexible, collaborative, and adaptive framework for managing complex projects and delivering high-quality software. By emphasizing incremental progress and continuous feedback, the iterative approach allows developers to respond quickly to changing requirements and customer feedback, ensuring that the final product meets the needs of its users.

> Sources:

Reviewer: We generally don't include sources like this. You can remove this. Just make sure that none of the language above is copied from these sources. All the text should be your own original work.

 ---
Title: 'Iterative Approach'

> Description: 'The iterative approach to software development is a methodology that emphasizes the importance of incremental progress and continuous feedback in the software development lifecycle (SDLC).'  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'An approach to software development that emphasizes the importance of incremental progress and continuous feedback in the software development lifecycle (SDLC).'  
```

Subjects:  
 - 'Mobile Development'
'Web Development'  
 Tags:  
 'Documentation'
 'Best Practices'
 'Development'  
CatalogContent:  
'introduction-to-open-source'
'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **iterative approach** to software development is a methodology that emphasizes the importance of incremental progress and continuous feedback in the software development lifecycle (SDLC). This approach involves breaking down a larger project into smaller, more manageable chunks that can be developed, tested, and deployed in shorter time frames. Each iteration builds upon the previous one, with feedback and adjustments being incorporated into subsequent iterations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Iterative model** to software development is a methodology that emphasizes the importance of incremental progress and continuous feedback in the software development lifecycle (SDLC). This approach involves breaking down a larger project into smaller, more manageable chunks that can be developed, tested, and deployed in shorter time frames. Each iteration builds upon the previous one, with feedback and adjustments being incorporated into subsequent iterations.
```

## Origins  

> The origins of the iterative approach can be traced back to the 1950s and 1960s when software development was in its infancy. However, it was not until the 1980s that the iterative approach gained wider acceptance and became a popular methodology for software development. At that time, software development was viewed as a linear process that involved several distinct stages, such as requirements gathering, design, coding, testing, and maintenance. However, as software projects became larger and more complex, it became clear that this linear approach was inadequate. In response, software developers began to experiment with iterative models that emphasized incremental progress and continuous feedback. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The origins of the Iterative model can be traced back to the 1950s and 1960s when software development was in its infancy. However, the model only began to gain wider acceptance and use in the 1980s. At that time, software development was viewed as a linear process that involved several distinct stages, such as requirements gathering, design, coding, testing, and maintenance. However, as software projects became larger and more complex, it became clear that this linear approach was inadequate. In response, software developers began to experiment with approaches that used iteration, emphasizing incremental progress and continuous feedback. 
```

  
## Current Usage  

> Today, the iterative approach is widely used in software development and is seen as an effective way to manage complex projects that involve multiple stakeholders, changing requirements, and evolving technologies. It is particularly well-suited for agile development methodologies that emphasize collaboration, flexibility, and adaptability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today, the Iterative model is widely used in software development and is seen as an effective way to manage complex projects that involve multiple stakeholders, changing requirements, and evolving technologies. It is particularly well-suited for agile development methodologies that emphasize collaboration, flexibility, and adaptability.
```

  
## Advantages  
  

> Some of the benefits of the iterative approach to the SDLC include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some of the benefits of the Iterative model include:
```

> - Improved flexibility: The iterative approach allows developers to respond quickly to changing requirements and adapt to new technologies as they emerge.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Improved flexibility: Allows developers to respond quickly to changing requirements and adapt to new technologies as they emerge.
```

> - Increased collaboration: The iterative approach emphasizes collaboration between developers, customers, and other stakeholders, which can lead to better communication and a more effective development process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Increased collaboration: Emphasizes collaboration between developers, customers, and other stakeholders, which can lead to better communication and a more effective development process.
```

> - Better risk management: The iterative approach allows developers to identify and mitigate potential risks early in the development process, reducing the likelihood of costly errors later on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Better risk management: Allows developers to identify and mitigate potential risks early in the development process, reducing the likelihood of costly errors later on.
```

  
## Disadvantages
  

> - Increased complexity: The iterative approach can make the development process more complex as it involves frequent changes and modifications to the requirements and design. This can lead to confusion and difficulties in managing the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Increased complexity: This approach can make the development process more complex as it involves frequent changes and modifications to the requirements and design. This can lead to confusion and difficulties in managing the project.
```

- Costly: Iterative development can be more costly than traditional development methods due to the need for frequent testing and rework. Additionally, the need for continuous feedback and collaboration can increase project overheads.

> - Time-consuming: The iterative approach can be time-consuming due to the need for frequent testing and rework. This can lead to delays in the project timeline and increased time to market.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Time-consuming: This model of development can be time-consuming due to the need for frequent testing and rework. This can lead to delays in the project timeline and increased time to market.
```

- Can be difficult to manage: Managing iterative development can be challenging, especially when dealing with large teams and complex projects. It can be difficult to keep track of changes and ensure that everyone is working towards the same goal.

> - Requires experienced team members: The success of the iterative approach depends on having experienced team members who can effectively manage the development process, provide feedback, and make decisions quickly. This can be a challenge for organizations that lack the necessary talent or resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Requires experienced team members: The success of the Iterative model depends on having experienced team members who can effectively manage the development process, provide feedback, and make decisions quickly. This can be a challenge for organizations that lack the necessary talent or resources.
```

> Overall, the iterative approach to the SDLC is an important methodology for software development today. It provides a flexible, collaborative, and adaptive framework for managing complex projects and delivering high-quality software. By emphasizing incremental progress and continuous feedback, the iterative approach allows developers to respond quickly to changing requirements and customer feedback, ensuring that the final product meets the needs of its users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Overall, the Iterative model is an important methodology for software development today. It provides a flexible, collaborative, and adaptive framework for managing complex projects and delivering high-quality software. By emphasizing incremental progress and continuous feedback, this approach allows developers to respond quickly to changing requirements and customer feedback, ensuring that the final product meets the needs of its users.
```

 ---

> Title: 'Iterative Approach to Software Development'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: 'Iterative Approach'
```

Description: 'The iterative approach to software development is a methodology that emphasizes the importance of incremental progress and continuous feedback in the software development lifecycle (SDLC).'  

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
remove extra line break

Subjects:  

> 'Mobile Development'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - 'Mobile Development'
```

Reviewer 2: Please update all of the lists within the metadata to match this formatting.

'Web Development'  

>  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
remove extra line break

 Tags:  
 'Documentation'
 'Best Practices'
 'Development'  

>     

Reviewer: ```suggestion  
```
remove extra line break

CatalogContent:  
'introduction-to-open-source'
'paths/computer-science'
---

The **iterative approach** to software development is a methodology that emphasizes the importance of incremental progress and continuous feedback in the software development lifecycle (SDLC). This approach involves breaking down a larger project into smaller, more manageable chunks that can be developed, tested, and deployed in shorter time frames. Each iteration builds upon the previous one, with feedback and adjustments being incorporated into subsequent iterations.

## Origins  

> The origins of the iterative approach can be traced back to the 1950s and 1960s when software development was in its infancy. However, it was not until the 1980s that the iterative approach gained wider acceptance and became a popular methodology for software development. At that time, software development was viewed as a linear process that involved several distinct stages, such as requirements gathering, design, coding, testing, and maintenance. However, as software projects became larger and more complex, it became clear that this linear approach was inadequate. In response, software developers began to experiment with iterative methods that emphasized incremental progress and continuous feedback. 

Reviewer 2: models seems more appropriate to me in this context

  
## Current Usage  

Today, the iterative approach is widely used in software development and is seen as an effective way to manage complex projects that involve multiple stakeholders, changing requirements, and evolving technologies. It is particularly well-suited for agile development methodologies that emphasize collaboration, flexibility, and adaptability.
  
## Advantages  
  

>   Some of the benefits of the iterative approach to the SDLC include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some of the benefits of the iterative approach to the SDLC include:
```

 ---

> Title: 'The Iterative Approach to Software Development'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: 'Iterative Approach'
```

Description: 'The iterative approach to software development is a methodology that emphasizes the importance of incremental progress and continuous feedback in the software development lifecycle (SDLC).'  

Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'Web Development'  
   
  Tags:
  - 'Documentation'
  - 'Best Practices'
  - 'Development'  
    
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-open-source'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
remove extra line break

## Origins  

The origins of the iterative approach can be traced back to the 1950s and 1960s when software development was in its infancy. However, it was not until the 1980s that the iterative approach gained wider acceptance and became a popular methodology for software development. At that time, software development was viewed as a linear process that involved several distinct stages, such as requirements gathering, design, coding, testing, and maintenance. However, as software projects became larger and more complex, it became clear that this linear approach was inadequate. In response, software developers began to experiment with iterative methods that emphasized incremental progress and continuous feedback. 
  
  
## Current Usage
  
  
Today, the iterative approach is widely used in software development and is seen as an effective way to manage complex projects that involve multiple stakeholders, changing requirements, and evolving technologies. It is particularly well-suited for agile development methodologies that emphasize collaboration, flexibility, and adaptability.
  
  

> ## Advantages

Reviewer: Remove extra line breaks before and after header. Only leave one blank line before and after the header.

  
  
Some of the benefits of the iterative approach to the SDLC include:

- Improved flexibility: The iterative approach allows developers to respond quickly to changing requirements and adapt to new technologies as they emerge.
- Increased collaboration: The iterative approach emphasizes collaboration between developers, customers, and other stakeholders, which can lead to better communication and a more effective development process.
- Better risk management: The iterative approach allows developers to identify and mitigate potential risks early in the development process, reducing the likelihood of costly errors later on.
- Faster time to market: The iterative approach allows developers to deliver working software in shorter time frames, enabling faster time to market and a more competitive edge.
  
  

> ## Disadvantages

Reviewer: Remove extra line breaks before and after header. Only leave one blank line before and after the header.

 ---

> Title: 'Iterative Approach'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Title: 'Iterative Model'
```

Reviewer 2: We just decided to update all of our SDLC entries to use a naming convention that includes "model" in the title and filenames. Please update the folder and filename to: iterative-model.
